---
layout: post
title: 'Sports'
category:
    - Culture
tags:
    - sports
permalink: /sports/
published: true
---

## A

### Adults primarily relate to sports as consumers

Sports are a hugely important and powerful force in many people's childhoods. The experiences they have playing with other kids teach them a great deal about themselves and how to relate to other people. The physical exercise is also really healthy. However, for most people in this society, as they become adults, there is a transition from participant to spectator. Sometimes this transition can be abrupt and traumatic, something that haunts people through life (for instance, high school football players who graduate and are never able to play again).

### The exploitation of players

Very, very few players become professionals and stars. Many, many more are used for a while, at the pro or college or elite amateur levels, by companies, institutions or states to generate huge revenues or talent pools out of which stars can be discovered (often with significant risk of injury and without much compensation, if any)

### The physical dangers

As sports become higher-stakes and athletic/medical technologies allow players to be stronger and faster, the risks inherent in vigorous physical activity are intensified. The discovery of football's effect on the brain is the easiest example, but consider also the prevalence of Tommy John injuries for baseball pitchers or the mental and emotional challenges young female olympic gymnasts or ice skaters are subjected to (not to mention the prevalence of literal abuse).

### The over-professionalization of young players

### The overhyping and triviality

### The cults and conformity

### The militarization

### The corruption and cheating

### The gambling

## B

It may be that people, generally, should understand dialectics. If so, sports provide a great laboratory to practice and play. In team sports, especially, the contraditions between offense and defense, between collective and individual, between competition and cooperation, between leader and led are, for many, endlessly compelling. These are generative contradictions, unions of opposites that create a material story through cycles of polarization and resolution. People are also able to reflect deeply on rules, fairness, cheating, youth and aging, selfishness, generosity, bravery, effort, luck, risk and danger, etc. in ways that they are not always encouraged to do in other arenas of capitalist life.

Of course, sports can also be fascistic. They can fetishize a platonic athletic purity. They can be a totalizing spectacle that promotes a fantasy of national or racial unity. They can be a literal site of training and recruitment of paramilitary gangs.

## C

What is to be done?

## D

What can we learn from?
